Welcome (Dubai students)
Welcome to the Research Methods and Project Planning - F21RP course. We hope you will enjoy learning from the content found herein, as well as from each other. Here is a summary of the course:

 

I. The main learning outcomes are:

Research aims and objectives, literature search, critical analysis, and review.
Technical Writing.
Requirements Analysis, Project Planning, and Risk Analysis.
Experimental Design and Project Evaluation (whichever of the following is applicable: Software, Empirical, Human).
Special topics related to specific project topics, including Statistical Methods, Working with Users, and Software Design Principles.
Professional standards and issues; legal, social, and ethical issues in IT.
 

II. The logistics of the course are as follows:

The sessions are face-to-face on campus on Saturdays from 12pm to 3pm in room 5.12 and will be delivered by different academics every week. Please check the 'Tentative weekly schedule (Dubai)' module.

Every week consists of 2 Units (always check the Schedule and Announcements, as not all weeks will be following the same pattern):

Theory Unit
Reading material on 1-3 topics: each topic typically consists of a slide deck of Lecture Notes. It is a good idea to study these before each Lecture.
1-hour lecture covering the most important parts of the material of the Theory topic. We will also discuss hands-on topics to help you complete the Ethics Form and write your Research Report. Finally, we will also have Guest Lectures.
Practical Unit
1 Lab Sheet with a practical exercise on topics covered in the Theory Unit
1-hour Tutorial Session to go through the Lab Sheet, interactively.
 

III. Finally, there are 2 deliverables:

Ethics Form. You will need to fill in and submit your Ethics Form electronically here.
IMPORTANT: Failing to get it submitted before the deadline automatically assigns Zero marks for Deliverable 1 of your F21RP course.

Deadline: Wednesday, March 6th, 2024, 2359pm

Research Report. You will need to submit your report in PDF format using Turnitin on Canvas. This is worth 100% marks but its final mark will depend on whether your Ethics Form has been submitted and approved as noted above. Also, you can ONLY proceed with your project if your ethics form has been APPROVED.
Deadline: TBC (usually mid-April)

 

You will find more information about these deliverables in Week 1.

 

If you have any questions about the course at any point, please do get in touch with us (Claudio) via email c.zito@hw.ac.uk.

I am looking forward to seeing you all on Saturday 20th January at 12pm (room 5.12).

 

-- Dubai Course Leader (Claudio Zito)